Update index.md (#379)
elixir-europe/infectious-diseases-toolkit: attributing-credit/index.md

---
title: Attributing credit

> toc: false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Licenses

When creating datasets, code, or other research outputs, it is vital to clearly and visibly label them with __appropriate licenses__. Licenses such as [Creative Commons CC-BY](https://creativecommons.org/share-your-work/cclicenses/ ) provide transparency about the terms others may use, modify, or share the work. By doing so, researchers protect their rights and enable others to reuse their job responsibly.

For those __reusing scientific outputs__, carefully reviewing the associated licenses is crucial. Understanding the terms of reuse helps users comply with the legal and ethical standards set by the original creators. Proper attribution and adherence to licensing terms prevent misuse and uphold the principles of open science and shared knowledge.

> An additional layer of diligence is necessary in sensitive research domains, such as health and infectious diseases. Data owners might use __restrictive licenses and access control mechanisms__. For example, health-related datasets containing personal or identifiable information may be shared under a Data Use Agreement (DUA)(e.g. [ECDC Tessy data sharing agreement](https://www.ecdc.europa.eu/en/publications-data/data-sharing-agreement-tessy-data)) or a controlled access model, such as the [European Genome-phenome Archive (EGA)](https://ega-archive.org/ ). These mechanisms restrict access to authorised researchers who meet ethical and legal requirements, ensuring data is used responsibly and aligned with privacy regulations like GDPR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An additional layer of diligence is necessary in sensitive research domains, such as health and infectious diseases. Data owners might use __restrictive licenses and access control mechanisms__. For example, health-related datasets containing personal or identifiable information may be shared under a Data Use Agreement (DUA)(e.g. [ECDC Tessy data sharing agreement](https://www.ecdc.europa.eu/en/publications-data/data-sharing-agreement-tessy-data)) or a controlled access model, such as the {% tool "ega" %}. These mechanisms restrict access to authorised researchers who meet ethical and legal requirements, ensuring data is used responsibly and aligned with privacy regulations like GDPR.
```

Not sure if this is the correct tool I

## Resources

To support responsible attribution and licensing practices, researchers and practitioners can access the following resources:
* [Creative Commons](https://creativecommons.org/share-your-work/cclicenses/): A comprehensive guide to licensing options and their implications.
* [ChooseALicence]((https://choosealicense.com/): A dedicated page helping to choose an open-source licence  

> * [ORCID](https://orcid.org/): A platform for creating and managing persistent identifiers for contributors .

Reviewer: Same here
